Computer are fascinating. I have been lucky to discover the IT world at the end
of the 90's, when internet was at its very beginning, and Windows 95 was the best 
things in the world. A whole universe containted in a box, with different layer:

- hardware
- software
- operating system
- programming language
- database
- internet
- etc...

The possibilities looked endlessly. I wanted to understand how everything was
working, and master the *magic* behind it. During my quest, one day, I 
discovered *Pharo smalltalk*. At first, curious about its surprising syntax, which
is completely appart of the dominant language I knew at that time (C/C++, javascript,
a little bit of Python), I quickly went to appreciate the full environment.

Computer are themselvers a full universe, and *Pharo* contain a complete world, completely
open to study, with a regular syntax. No more specific tools to master, no obscure 
framework, no hidden code or closed library, everything is available in the image.

When I say everything, I really mean everything. Compiler, graphics stacks, syntax,
everything is defined and available right in the image. The Virtual Machine itself
is written in *Pharo*, and its code can be browsed and studied with the same tool you
use to write and manipulate *Pharo*.

As a quick reminder, the whole Pharo syntax can be expressed on postcard, as
illustratred [here](https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:Pharo_syntax_postcard.svg).
You can find all information you need on *Pharo* directly on the project page:
[pharo](https://www.pharo.org)

This blog is the result of my exploration. I hope you'll find usefull information
in here, and get the same fun at deep diving into the *Pharo* World than I had.

## Computer graphics and Pharo graphical stacks

One of the first things that caught my attention with computer was Graphics. If 
computer can be mysterious, graphics looked like magic. 