
canvas := FormCanvas extent: 10@10.

canvas fillColor: Color white.
canvas line: 0@0 to: 10@10 width: 1 color: Color black.
canvas line: 0@9 to: 9@0 width: 1 color: Color red.
canvas form magnifyBy: 10
```


pict := ColorForm extent: 10@10 depth: 2.

"create a color map of 2^depth color"
map := {  Color lightBlue . 
			Color blue .
			Color lightGray .
			Color red.
 }.
pict colors: map.


canvas := FormCanvas on: pict.

"canvas fillColor: (Color fromHexString:'100000')."
canvas line: 0@0 to: 10@10 width: 1 color: Color lightCyan .
canvas line: 0@9 to: 9@0 width: 1 color: Color blue.
canvas line: 0@5 to: 10@5 width: 1 color: Color white.
canvas line: 5@0 to: 5@10 width: 1 color: Color yellow.
canvas line: 0@9 to: 9@0 width: 1 color: Color red.
canvas form 


bitPatternForDepth: depth 
	"Return a Bitmap, possibly containing a stipple pattern, that best represents this color at the given depth. BitBlt calls this method to convert colors into Bitmaps. The resulting Bitmap may be multiple words to represent a stipple pattern of several lines.  "
	"See also:	pixelValueAtDepth:	-- value for single pixel
				pixelWordAtDepth:	-- a 32-bit word filled with the pixel value"
	"Details: The pattern for the most recently requested depth is cached."
	"Note for depths > 2, there are stippled and non-stippled versions (generated with #balancedPatternForDepth: and #bitPatternForDepth:, respectively). The stippled versions don't work with the window bit caching of StandardSystemView, so we make sure that for these depths, only unstippled patterns are returned"
    
    